In this guided exercise,
we are going to decompose
solver microservice,
which has a single endpoint and then
calculates equations internally.
We are going to make it more modular.
So we are going to externalize the
adder and the multiplier operations
into individual microservices and then
use the solver as a REST client
to invoke those.
However, those two we'll call back
into the solver applications,
as we have seen in one of
the previous examples,
because the solve method
is used recursively.
We are going to start with lab
apps-connect start script,
which publishes the source code
and creates an OpenShift project
because at the end we are going to deploy
the three applications in
OpenShift as well.
Now, looking at the DO378/labs/
apps-connect/ directory, we see there's
only the solver application in it.
And if we have a look at the
microservice implementation,
the rest implementation
in SolverResource,
we can see that it has the two
Pattern compilation representations.
It exposes the equation parameter.
It solves the equation recursively,
as you can see here in the
add and multiply methods.
It calls the solve method
again in order to drill down
if there are nested equations and of
course then returns the result.
Right! So first things
first, we are going to add
the rest-client extension
to the solver application.
When it's added, we are going to simply
edit the SolverService.java interface
and we are going to add the @RegisterRestClient
annotation to it.
This is where the base
path is actually set.
If you're wondering why there
is no path annotation at
the top of the SolverResource class,
note that it implements
SolverService interface.
That's where we added the
RegisterRestClient annotation.
And we are going to copy that one
to the other two new applications.
There's going to be a
new interface that we
create for the benefit of
the solver application,
which is the adder service, right?
So the adder service will simply
be listening at the adder endpoint
and define a single endpoint
underneath it called add,
which accepts two parameters,
the left-hand side and
the right-hand side of
the equation separated by slashes.
And then we will see how
the implementation goes in the
next segment of the exercise.
Similarly, we are going to create
a multiplier service interface.
In both cases, of course we'll
register them as RestClient,
so for both the adder and their multiplier services,
multiplier services just has
a different base path,
but also uses two expressions separated by
slashes to define the left-hand side and
the right-hand side operand of the equation.
Then we are going to create
the two new project.
So going back to labs/
apps-connect/ directory using
mavens quarkus plugins create goal.
We are going to configure a new project
called adder and a group
of com.redhat.training.
We are going to call the
class AdderResource,
configure it at path /adder
and add the rest-client
extension to it as well.
So that generates the code
and we will be doing the
same for the multipliers.
So the group ID is the same com.redhat.
training except the artifact
ID is called multiplier.
The path is called /multiplier,
and also it needs the rest-client extension as well.
So then source code is generated here too.
And now I have three projects,
adder, multiplier and solver.
Solver already contains
the REST interfaces
which we are now going to copy around.
But what we do not need is
the test directories in
the adder and multipliers
services because we
discuss testing in another chapter.
So we will simply going to remove them
and then edit the adder resource.
So the adder resource
in the adder project,
what we are going to do is replace
the initial hello method.
We are going to state that
this AdderResource implements
the AdderService interface,
which we are going to copy there later on.
We are going to inject the RestClient
for the SolverService,
so the adder project two will need the
SolverService interface place there.
We define the add method,
annotating it with the
correct path annotation.
So we will simply basically
just cut and paste
this method from the solver into the adder
and we are going to do the
same with the multiplier.
So the multiplier resource is going
to have similar modifications,
so we are going to note that
the MultiplierResource implements
the MultiplierService.
It is going to inject the RestClient
for the solverService.
And again, simply cutting and pasting
the multiplier method from the
solver class and into this one,
adding the @Path annotation
as we go along, of course.
So what we are going to do now
is copy the interfaces from
solver to both multipliers service package
and to the adder service package.
Just make sure that all three interfaces
are present in all three projects.
Next, we have a review of
what the current state is,
so we have the adder project,
which has the AdderResource
implementing the add method
and all three interfaces,
although it doesn't really
need the multiplier one.
We have the MultiplierService,
again implementing the multiplier method,
and it has all three interfaces as well.
Although again, it does not
need the adder interface
and we have the solver project,
which simply implements
the solve method and
actively uses the adder and the multiplier
service interfaces as a client,
and of course, it implements
the SolverService itself.
Let's have a look,
we need to configure first of all,
the applications themselves, we need
to be able to test them locally,
we need to have them use unique names.
So what we will be adding to the
application.properties of each is, in adder
we will be configuring quarkus.
application.name to the adder
and we will set the http.port
for dev profile to be 8081.
In multiplier we will do the same,
except we will be calling the
application.multiplier and
selecting port 8082 in dev mode
and for the solver we'll be doing the
same except the name of the application
is solver and the port is
8080 when running it in dev mode.
Now, that's for the
applications themselves,
we have configured them to listen each on
their own separate port when
running in dev mode and they
have unique names, representative names.
Now what we also need to do,
and that's why I'm going to open
the application properties of
all three projects once more.
We need to configure the REST client,
so we will just use
the same REST client configuration across
all three applications,
although not everywhere,
do we need that.
So for prod, which is going to
be a deployment to OpenShift,
we are configuring the solver
client to connect to http://
solver:8080, that is the solver
Kubernetes service in the same project.
That's also why we named the
application solver because this has
implicit consequences on the naming
of the OpenShift resources
created among others,
also the Kubernetes service, right!
Similarly for the AdderService in prod,
it's going to be called Adder port 8080
and the MultiplierService is the same.
For dev profile,
we simply state that the SolverService is
listening on localhost port 8080.
The Adder is listening on port 8081
and the Multiplier is
listening on port 8082.
This is all configuration
for the REST client,
whichever project uses it,
whenever it uses it, right?
If we have too many configuration items
here and we are not using
a particular REST Client,
well, who cares, it doesn't hurt,
it's easier to maintain though.
We just copied these 6 lines to the
other 2 application.properties files.
So this was for adder and
we add the same lines
to multiplier and the solver.
It's now time to test our application.
So in the solver project,
run, maven quarkus:dev,
and when it starts up,
we are going to exercise it a little bit,
note that it listens on localhost port
8080. While waiting  for it to startup,
we can also start the the adder project.
So going to the adder location
mvn quarkus:dev will take
care of starting up the adder
and you can see that it
listens on port 8081 as well.
Then finally, of course,
each of them in a separate
terminal window or tab.
The multiplier project,
started upon quarkus dev mode states
that it's listening on port 8082.
Right! Now, let's test sending a curl
GET request to port 8080 to the solver,
simply stating the parameter is
5 gives us the correct response.
If we invoke adder and add 5 and 3 together,
we get 8, which is correct.
And if we call multiplier and
multiply 5 and 4, we get 20.
Now, both of these two operations
are here in this equation.
So if we invoke solver 5 times 4 is 20,
plus three is 23.
Perfect.
Now, let us deploy this on OpenShift.
We're going to add the OpenShift
extension to all three projects.
There we go. So just
simply stopping quarkus:
and using mvn quarkus:add-
extension with Dextension
equals openshift parameter.
What we are also going to do is
just once, we only need to login
once, load the OpenShift configuration
and login to the OpenShift
Container Platform,
making sure that we are using the project,
your username-apps-connect.
And then we are just going
to use mvn package with
Dquarkus.kubernetes.deploy set
to true, Dquarkus.s2i.
base-jvm-image set to
registry.access.redhat.
com/ubi8/openjdk-11 and with solver
setting also quarkus.openshift.expose
equals true to get
an external access point where we
can invoke the solver application.
The build starts running,
we don't have to wait
for it to finish.
We just switch to the next
application, which is the adder.
I use the openshift.expose option
with both adder and multiplier as well,
just because it simplifies the
tests. Of course, in production,
we would want these two
services not to be available,
so we wouldn't actually expose them.
Again as the adder build is running,
we can proceed onto the multiplier
build and do the same thing.
It takes a couple of minutes
for the builds to finish
and as they all report success,
we can move on to testing
the applications.
Getting the solver route points us to
the host name of the solver application
sending a request of 5 times 4 plus 3,
yields the correct result.
Just use the route to test
the other 2 applications.
You could have used the method described
in the book, in the exercise by
logging into the pods and
running a curl command
inside the pod connecting
to localhost port 8080.
I did it through an external route
so adding 5 and 6 does yield 11 and
multiplying 5 and 6 does result in 30.
That's it.
Let's run the labs apps-
connect finish script and wait
for it to clean everything up.
Then join us in the next video,
which is the end of chapter
review lab. See you there.